(gentle music)
- [Woman] For decades,
NASA repeatedly stated
that there is no proof
of life in the universe
and no evidence that
unidentified flying objects
are from other planets.
But, in July of 2015,
the world’s most advanced
space agency made an
unprecedented announcement.
A prediction that
we will find other life
and that it will be found
within our own galaxy.
Most astonishingly of all,
they placed a time frame
on what undoubtedly be
the most significant event
in human history.
NASA claimed that not only
will we find evidence of
extraterrestrial life, they
stated that this discovery
will happen in the next 20
years.
- [Man] The American
Broadcasting Company
and affiliated stations
present Headline Edition
with Taylor Grant.
Today's Edition presents a round
up
of the latest developments in
the finding of a flying disc.
Landed at a ranch at Corona, New
Mexico.
Rancher W.W. Brazel was the
man who discovered the saucer.
Colonel William Blanchard --
- [Simon] I’ve never understood
why we laugh at those people
who say they’ve seen UFOs.
We know from
declassified documents
that whatever
they are,
some of them are real,
and can’t be explained.
- Back to the original Don
Schmitt,
what are they hiding?
- Well I think they’re hiding
first of all the fact that --
- [Simon] There’s one UFO
case that never goes away,
and some investigators
who will never give up
on the truth.
- It's one of the
reasons that we encourage
the witnesses to come forward,
because after all --
- [Simon] I’d made contact
with Donald Schmitt.
He was still digging for
evidence
at the most famous crash
site in UFO history.
- [Donald] The fact that
they’d threatened these people,
that they went
into their homes.
- [Simon] I'd spent years
trying to get access
to those last living
witnesses, and eventually,
I found my way in.
- [Donald] Actually
threatened physical violence
if they should ever talk
about this, this highly --
- [Simon] After a lifetime of
wondering,
I was going to Roswell.
(dramatic music)
- [Reporter] This is
a Fox News alert.
Overnight, the government
shutdown for the first time,
partially, in 17 years --
- The fiscal deadlock
between the White House
and GOP officials continues,
with the partial
government shutdown.
- [Simon] The timing
for the new dig
couldn’t have been worse.
The US was in shutdown.
(phone dialing)
- [Simon] Hi Don, I’ve
just landed in Albuquerque,
are we good to go?
- [Donald] Yes, hi Simon.
I don’t necessarily have the
best of news,
I’m sorry but because of the
government shutdown here,
as things would be
caught up in Washington,
and specifically to the
Department of the Interior,
we may have to postpone.
- [Simon] But the bad
news didn’t end there.
My first interview, and the
reason I’d flown to Albuquerque,
had to cancel at the very last
second.
Eleazar Benavides, a retired
military man,
is the only person alive who
says he saw
the dead occupants of
the Roswell UFO crash.
Despite all the setbacks, I
had other witnesses to see,
and Roswell was still 200 miles
away.
The Roswell incident is
the most documented case
in UFO history,
and the people connected
to it still living
get fewer every year.
If you want to get to those
witnesses,
Donald Schmitt is the
man you need to speak to.
He’s also one of the
few investigators left
still working on the case.
- You didn’t read about
that in the press,
because again the press won’t
touch it,
this is considered taboo, this
is fringe.
- [Simon] For more than
20 years, Schmitt has been
looking to prove that Roswell
was in fact an extraterrestrial
event.
- [Tom] The bodies came in.
That was her story.
- [Simon] Don Schmitt
and his writing partner
Tom Carey still work the
case more that 60 years
after the event happened.
- So you guys are still finding
witnesses,
like daughters and sons of
witnesses --
- Daughters and sons and we
found two,
two first hand witnesses in
April.
These were in the year book?
- Yes.
You had a room set up?
- [Simon] But there was
someone else at the meeting
I wasn’t expecting.
Jaime Maussan is a Mexican
journalist who’s been
reporting on UFOs for years.
(announcer speaking foreign
language)
A long time supporter of
Schmitt and Carey’s work,
Maussan is another prominent
figure in the UFO scene.
(announcer speaking foreign
language)
- So I think we have
plenty of seating space.
- [Simon] So the dig was back
on,
and Schmitt was busy prepping
the troops.
- Appropriate clothing,
appropriate footwear --
- [Simon] But this mixed
team of investigators,
photographers and loyal
followers were already set
for the early start the next
morning.
(intense music)
- [Tom] Light 'em up!
- [Simon] Searching for
fragments of
a real flying saucer felt
a long way from reality.
But Don meant business
and he kept the precise
location coordinates a
closely guarded secret.
- [Radio Announcer] KBIM,
94.9, a country giant.
Zia Guns is your American family
gun shop,
they’ve been doing it for 28
years,
it is a family run organization.
1907, dark days in Roswell.
28 years --
- [Man] We have another one.
- [Man] Somebody’s
got my gloves.
I wonder who that is.
- [Woman] It's me,
do you need them?
- [Man] Somebody didn’t
plan ahead did they?
- [Simon] How confident
are you of the position?
The actual..
- This being the site?
- [Simon] The two positions
you’ve just pointed out now.
- It's where we left off last
time.
It's about 30 yards,
for about three hours.
So we’re going to work down to
that flag,
and then as I describe
each grid, we’re going to,
and then move out.
And so because we’ve
already mapped out the site
we’ve laid out the grid in the
past.
And now it's the focus on
this one area that's been
the most promising.
- Can you take a look at this
one here?
- [Simon] While the team got
to grips with technicalities,
I thought I’d see what Jaime
Maussan
had to say about the dig.
But he was more interested
in telling me about
new evidence on Roswell.
Some old pictures that showed
strange looking bodies.
- Do you know about the
photographs that they’ve found?
There are two photographs, two
slides,
where you can see the bodies.
But there is something
in the photographs that
they don’t trust is,
they are codified, and they
don’t know what is says.
And they are afraid this could
be a hoax
or a trick or a catch or
something just to, to...
Expose them as, as fools.
And I said, “why don’t
you release them now?”
And they said, "We have
to be very careful because
"we don’t want to be exposed."
- [Simon] I'd been tipped off
about slides of a dead alien
back in the UK, and as
dubious as it sounded,
there was obviously more to it.
But I’d got someone to
see back in Roswell.
His father had been on the base
in ’47
at the time of the crash.
He’d never spoken on camera
before.
(mysterious music)
- With the US government,
is known to cover up things,
I mean factual.
- [Simon] Yeah, of course.
- I was involved in one which
was the,
the pursuit of the Khmer Rouge
in Cambodia in 1974 and '75,
because I was in Viet Nam and,
they didn’t admit that until,
what, 15 or 20 years ago.
- [Simon] Gary’s father had
been on the airbase the very day
that the Roswell incident
happened.
- My father was stationed
here on the 509th and,
had top secret clearance,
and was a flight engineer
on the B-29s at that point in
time.
If in fact it had been
a benign military test
or a weather balloon, they
would have talked about it.
- What do you think he
witnessed, yourself?
- He knew the pilot’s names,
he had flown with them,
he had been to Patterson
Air Force base many times.
It was a cover up, I mean
it's evident, I mean...
These guys came to town
and drank, you know,
when they were off a lot,
hard partiers, warriors,
and I just can’t fathom
that all of a sudden
everything was just
turned off like a faucet,
that there was no talk,
there was no gossip,
there was no scuttlebutt,
I, I don’t buy that.
I was in the service myself,
I know how that works.
- [Simon] Yeah.
- We all tend to agree that
the older people that were here
at the time that were subdued,
or coerced or threatened,
that they were shut down for a
reason.
Okay here it is, this is
building 84, this is it.
- [Simon] Gary had more to
say, but he had to wait.
I had someone else lined
up who’d also never spoken
on camera before, the once
son in law of Dan Dwyer,
the fireman who saw the UFO
wreckage.
- I heard this story
from Dan Dwyer in 1959.
I was going into the army, and I
was out in the front yard
with him, and he said,
"I want to tell you something
Ken,
"that people don’t talk about,
but it...
"Involves the alien incident.
"Our fire crew from the
Roswell fire department
"was one of the first on scene."
He said, "When we got
there, we’ve seen things
"like you’ve never seen before.
"There were two",
I’m going to call them creatures
the way he described it.
"They were dead.
"And there was pieces
scattered all over the pasture.
"Within two days
government people showed up
"talking to the families of...
"The people who had been on
site,
"and were told to keep their
mouths shut,
"not to discuss it with
each other or anyone,
"or basically the
families would be split up
"and they’d never see each other
again."
That was the threats, it scared
the heck out of the kids.
So, no one ever talked about it.
- [Simon] Ken seemed sincere,
but his story was a long way
from the official version of
events.
- [Woman] On July 3rd 1947,
something exploded mid air
near to Roswell New Mexico,
and came down leaving wreckage
sprawled over a square mile.
The US Air Force say what
crashed was a military device,
being flown for Project Mogul,
a top secret program monitoring
the nuclear activities
of the Soviet Union.
They also claimed what
witnesses saw were just
crash test dummies, dropped
from a great height,
and that little grey men
never entered the equation.
Case closed?
Afraid not.
This fourth official
explanation was given 50 years
after the event.
In 1994 the Army Air Force had
put out its third explanation
admitting it had lied after all,
with its weather balloon
story back in '47,
which was actually its second
explanation.
Confused?
That was the idea.
In 1947, three hours after
its first press release,
the US Army Air Force,
as it was then called,
claimed that this first
statement,
the one admitting they had
retrieved a real flying saucer,
was also incorrect, and
that it was nothing more
than a simple weather balloon.
All in all, four official
explanations
over a 50 year period and
officially three sets of lies,
admitted to by the military
themselves, all on record.
- [Simon] It was the last day of
the dig.
And it seemed like the
pressure was to find something.
(all talking softly)
- Turn by turn coordinates
on getting out there
decided to go and turn, well it
was,
I turned on my computer --
- Yeah, yeah.
- [Simon] The convoy
was in a hurry,
and took a different route in.
And as I held back for the
Mexican crew to keep up,
the rest vanished in the dust
clouds.
Within minutes, we were lost.
Is this it?
The only man with coordinates
had left us behind,
and there were roads to
nowhere in every direction.
Yeah.
It's all pretty difficult.
Which way was it now?
To the left?
- Left.
- Was it left?
We were miles from civilization,
and we’d been lost for nearly an
hour.
That was them.
- [Donald] Just stay
with us now.
- [Jaime] Yes, please.
- [Simon] Guys, what happened?
- You lost us.
- No, we were behind, you lost
us!
- We were doing about 40 all the
while,
we were making sure, and
the others all kept up,
but we’re okay now, stay with
us.
- I promise you I won’t forget
after this.
- [Donald] Okay.
- [Simon] Glad to be back
on track, as Don drove away
at his version of 40 miles an
hour,
there was a day I wouldn’t
forget on this trip,
the day I met with Frankie Rowe.
Her father was Dan Dwyer,
the witness who had
shared his story with Ken.
She’d held some of the
fragments of the UFO,
in her own hands.
- Well it was a few days after
I was at the fire station,
that the military came to our
house.
I saw the car when it
drove up the driveway,
and it was a military car,
you know flags and all,
they went all out for this.
He started asking questions
first about
what did I think I saw?
And I told him the whole
thing, I saw the material,
I saw the state cop that
came down and he said,
"No you didn’t, you didn’t see
that."
I said, "Yes I did."
So I came back at him
which made him angry.
And he’s very emphatic about it,
beating his hand with his night
stick,
and telling me, I didn’t see all
this,
I didn’t hear it and I
didn’t know about it,
and if I ever talked about it,
or told anyone about
it the rest of my life,
they would come after me.
He said, "This is a big desert
out here,
"nothing but a desert."
He said, "We can take you out
there and bury your bodies
"and nobody will ever find you."
Due to a phone outage on my
house phone,
a telephone repairman
discovered that I had a...
Wire on my phone that was
transmitting everything
that came in or went out,
to some other location.
It could not have been there
when I bought the house
because I had my service put in,
repairmen were out there.
Someone installed it for
whatever purpose, I don’t know.
- [Woman] Just after the crash,
Mac Brazel found wreckage
on his sheep ranch.
He took some fragments to
the town sheriff at Roswell,
who immediately called the intel
officer
at the Roswell Army base, Jesse
Marcel.
This is where things
got much more serious.
After retracting their initial
statement
and publicly playing the event
down, the army then turned
the entire region upside down,
and threatened the witnesses
with their lives, if they
as much as whispered about
what had really happened.
They even arrested Mac himself,
for simply reporting
it to the authorities.
Locking him up, until he
was persuaded to say that
all he had seen was a weather
balloon.
But hundreds of witnesses
are now on record
saying this mundane explanation
is a complete fabrication.
Dozens of credible professionals
with everything to lose
and nothing to gain, say
the official story is a lie,
and that it was in fact an
object
and persons of unknown origin.
- [Simon] My next connection
to the case was Fawn Fritz.
She was the granddaughter of Mac
Brazel,
the rancher who’d found the UFO
wreckage.
- It happened!
Sorry, it happened!
It was here.
They had trucks and trucks
of guys out here, dad said.
They were out here for
days and days and days.
And they just didn’t come once,
they came back twice after that
too.
(metal detector warbling)
Grandpa picked up what he
found, you know the pieces.
And then they went back over to
Floyd’s,
and he wanted to show them to
Floyd to get Floyd’s opinion
of what he thought they were.
And they sat there and had
coffee.
Well how could he do that?
Well he didn’t realize,
he had no conception,
that there was a
spacecraft laying down here
in the ditch somewhere!
I mean when the military come
out here,
they were out here for
days and days and days.
And I mean they were walking
shoulder to shoulder.
And if they even thought
that it was anything to do
with the crash, they picked it
up.
So I mean as far as there
being any pieces left no, no.
I...
It's a waste of time
and money to even look.
- [Man In Hat]
That’s a big chunky,
actually that's a nice artifact,
'cause that's a big chunky
piece.
- No, it's not a bullet.
You can see it's...
- [Simon] So during the
last hours of the dig,
they’d found something;
A piece of metal which had
been buried under the earth,
strangely with no visible
corrosion.
There’s so much strong
evidence on the Roswell case,
but this was a long way from it.
- The truth is constantly,
just like the crash site,
the debris field, the
truth has its way of always
coming to the surface.
And I for one am always
going to be watching for it.
There are only two
possibilities for what happened
at Roswell in 1947: it's
either the greatest hoax
of all time involving hundreds
and hundreds of people,
from all walks of life;
civilian, military, media,
the press, or...
It's the greatest story of the
millennium.
And, when that final
announcement is made,
when that final proof is
presented to the world,
I want to be there.
- [Simon] But when it came
to talking about the slides,
Don was still being guarded.
I thought I might have more
luck with his research partner,
Tom Carey.
Just tell me if you will,
there’s,
you’re working on something new,
you can’t tell me very much
about it,
can you explain a little
about what that is and why
you can’t discuss it?
- Well I will tell you
a little bit about,
perhaps our most
important project
that we’re
working  on now
is a, a third party has come
into possession of some...
Items.
And they date from 1947.
Now Don Schmitt and I want
to get our own analysis,
we’re not going to sign on
to something that blows up
in our face, in this
business that’s terminal.
So I can tell you that right
now,
these items as I have viewed
them, are compelling to me.
And if they pan out, and
go all the way through
the due diligence process and
come out
at the end of the line
authentic,
then in my mind we have
a significant proof for
the Roswell event as an
extraterrestrial event.
- [Simon] So according to Tom,
they could well be sat on the
story of the millennium.
But it was time to leave,
and I'd still not met anyone
who had been part of the cover
up.
I had one chance left, and he
lived somewhere in Alabama.
He’s the only surviving
member of the air crew
who flew the wreckage to a
secret government location.
I hoped if anyone could tell
me what happened on that
July day in ’47 that it might
be this guy, Arthur Osepchook.
- [Flight Announcer] Welcome
to Mobile Regional Airport.
Your safety is important to us.
Please stay with your
baggage and personal items
at all times.
- [Simon] Arthur, already in his
90s,
lives not far from a place
called Mobile,
strangely enough where Steven
Spielberg
filmed the final scene
to his 70s UFO classic:
Close Encounters of the Third
Kind.
It felt weirdly appropriate.
I’d worked years for a day like
this,
and I couldn’t wait to
hear what he had to say.
How you doing?
- [Arthur] Pretty good.
- [Simon] I spoke with
Arthur while he was at home
with his family.
- I was a side gunner, and
then they had the right gunner.
We shared a turret and
we had a tail gunner.
- [Simon] Ozzy and his
crew had had the highest
top secret clearance in the
military.
The 509th Wing Command Group
were responsible for carrying
the atomic bomb.
- Whatever they wanted to move
from the base was top secret.
But what shocked me when he
got that plane over the pit,
it was covered, and then they
covered the bomb bay doors
and they told us to get off the
air plane.
It was surprising, I had
a top secret clearance.
- [Simon] So that was unusual,
was it?
- It was very unusual.
We were shocked, it hurt
our pride a little bit!
- [Simon] It seemed
incredible, that a crew with
high top secret clearance
weren’t allowed to see
what had been loaded
onto their own aircraft.
- Then when we got back to
Roswell,
that's when they told us
to keep our mouths shut.
I remember, "You don’t tell
anybody,
"you don’t tell your wives,
you don’t talk to anybody,
"you don’t talk to each other
about it."
No one knew about this mission,
when we weren't to Fort
Worth, it was all secret.
See, none of the base crew
members knew about it,
we never talked about it.
They really scared us when we
come back.
This was the most top
secret thing I ever seen
when I was in the Air Force.
- You take good care.
- Hang in there now.
- I will.
What had they flown to Fort
Worth Texas?
We might never know.
Don eventually agreed to
set up a meeting with the
owner of the slides, but
he still wouldn’t give up
the contact details of the last
witness.
- [Donald] I will contact
Eleazar and then I will also
talk to the owners of the
slides.
- [Simon] I just hoped it
wouldn’t take too long.
I was still waiting for the
interview Don had promised me
with the owner of the slides.
And then a strange thing
happened.
- Welcome back.
President Bill Clinton
is here with us, so --
If I was president, and I
won’t be, let’s be honest.
(audience laughs)
The first thing I would
do after putting my hand
on that bible and taking that
oath, to serve the country,
is, I would, I wouldn’t even
probably finish the oath.
I would run to the White House,
I’d demand to see all the
classified files on the UFOs.
(audience laughs)
‘Cause I’d wanna know,
I’d wanna know what has been
going on.
Did you do that?
- Sort of.
- Sort of?
(audience laughs)
- Yeah we had...
I think it was at the
beginning of my second term,
we had an anniversary of
Roswell.
I knew we’d get, you
know, zillions of letters,
so I had all the Roswell papers
reviewed.
Everything.
- If you saw that there were
aliens there would you tell us?
- Yeah.
- [Jimmy] You would?
(audience cheering and
applauding)
- [Simon] A US President had
admitted on national television
he’d asked to see the Roswell
documents.
The connection between
UFOs and US politics
wasn’t going away.
(plane engine roars)
Stephen Bassett is a political
activist,
and the only lobbyist in
the US on what he describes
at the ET issue.
- The problem in this
field is not scientific,
it hasn’t been, this issue
has been proven 50 years ago.
This is a political problem,
it's a political policy.
You can’t solve it with science,
you have to solve it with
political engagement.
And so, okay, I know
Washington, I’ve been there,
I’ve lived there a lot of
times, I’m going down there,
I’m going to engage the ET
issue.
Politically.
- [Simon] In 2013, Bassett
organized
the Citizen Hearing on
Disclosure, a serious attempt
at engaging Capitol Hill, on
what he claims is an ongoing
truth embargo, concerning
an extraterrestrial reality.
Like many, Bassett argues
there’s an ET reality
being covered up, and that
UFOs are just the side show.
The difference is that
he’s turned this belief
into a full time job.
Every advocacy movement
that has been of success
and importance, had a defined
prize.
The women’s right to vote
movement, that was a no brainer.
We want their right to
vote, we want the amendment.
They pushed, they got it.
All right?
Civil Rights movement was
primarily about getting
the Civil Right’s Act.
What was the prize in the
extraterrestrial phenomena
movement?
We gave it a prize.
And that word turned up,
started to emerge the very late
1990s,
didn’t really get under
way until about 2000,
called ‘disclosure’.
The formal acknowledgement of
this
extraterrestrial presence,
by world governments,
starting most likely with
the single government.
That is disclosure.
That is the prize.
That is what we’re seeking.
(applauding)
- [Simon] I wasn’t sure if
this was inspired, brave,
or completely insane.
Maybe it was all three.
Richard Dolan is a respected
author and UFO researcher,
who began as a political
historian.
I wanted his take on US politics
and UFOs.
- It wasn’t really until the
United States
Freedom of Information
Act became significant
in the late 1970s, that some
researchers were able to,
as it were, shake that tree and
documents
started falling out.
When you have objects described
in
formerly classified government
memos as being disc shaped,
as invading sensitive airspace,
as being able to outperform
our best interceptors, and
when you can see from the tone
of the memos that this
is a very serious matter
and how could it not be?
Then clearly there’s
something important happening.
You would wonder, "Well
great, so where’s the larger
"public discussion about this?
"This is really interesting
information."
And I’ve been asking myself that
question
ever since I’ve been in this
field.
My conclusion is that there’s
been a tremendous amount
of control and manipulation
over what we call
mainstream media, over our
political institutions,
our academic institutions,
and I think that’s really what’s
happened.
- My hand would just, it'd still
be hot
from touching the bible,
and I would immediately
race to wherever they hold,
have the files about Area 51 and
the UFOs,
and I’d go through everything
to find out what happened.
Did you do that?
- That’s why you will not be
President.
(audience cheering applauding)
Because that’s the first
thing that you would do.
(both laughing)
- It's at the top of my --
The aliens won’t let it happen.
(audience laughs)
You’ll reveal all their secrets.
They exercise strict control
over us.
- When a President, or a former
President,
appears on a TV show like that,
nothing is left open to
chance, not a single thing.
So clearly Obama’s people
and Clinton’s people
made an arrangement and said,
“We’re going to talk about
these few things here”,
so what we really want
to be asking is why,
why would Barack Obama and
why would Bill Clinton want to
talk about UFOs with Jimmy
Kimmel?
- [Simon] It was a good
question.
Stephen Bassett had some
ideas on the answer.
It went back to ties between the
Clintons
and one of America’s richest
families, the Rockefellers.
- Laurance Rockefeller
approached
the Clinton Administration
of March 29th of 1993.
He’s a billionaire
friend of the Clintons,
big donor to the democratic
party.
He approached the administration
with the intent of
convincing President Clinton to
release
all of the UFO files.
And thus began the Rockefeller
Initiative
which lasted for three years.
Meetings were held amongst
researchers,
many of which are still alive,
at Rockefeller’s ranch in
Wyoming.
Then the Clintons went
out in ’95 and met with
the Rockefellers at that ranch,
where this was discussed.
By October of 1996 it had run
its course,
the files were not released,
disclosure did not happen,
Clinton was running for
re-election, and that was that.
16 months after President
Clinton was out of office,
his former key advisor,
and Chief of Staff,
John Podesta, came to
the National Press Club,
and introduced a new
organization called the
Coalition for the Freedom of
Information.
And in the introduction he
makes a very profound statement
which is now on the internet.
- I think its time to open
the books on questions
which have remained in the
dark on the question of,
of, government investigations
of, of UFOs.
It's time to find out
what the truth really is
that’s out there.
We ought to do it really
because its right,
we ought to do it because
the American people
quite frankly can handle the
truth,
and we ought to do it because
its the law.
- Who does Barack Obama
pick to be his Chairman
of his transition team to
create the new government?
John Podesta, who called
for the release of UFO files
twice and was involved in
the Rockefeller Initiative.
And they get together and
who do they pick to be
the Secretary of State?
Hilary Clinton.
So with all of that background,
now someone can understand why,
with the Rockefeller initiative
imminent,
possibly as major news
and them having to answer
a whole lot of questions,
Podesta puts out that tweet.
- [Simon] So there it was, an
undeniable connection to UFOs,
all the way to the
White House, and beyond.
It had been months since Don
had returned any of my calls.
I thought the evidence of the
slides might have fizzled out.
But I couldn’t have been more
wrong.
- [Woman] Now has this been
released, to the public?
- [Man] No, not yet.
And the government knows you
have this?
You’re not scared of ‘em?
- [Man] Here’s what I know, so
far.
Several months ago I was given a
box of
400 color Kodachrome slides
that appear to have been taken
over a ten year period
staring in the mid 1940s.
Now I’m a sports guy, I
cover sports for living.
I’m not making any
claims as to what exactly
is in these two slides.
- [Simon] So there was
someone else making a film
about the slides, and I’d
been cut out of the loop,
despite all the assurances from
Don.
And it was Jaime Maussan
who would host the event
from Mexico City.
After being kept waiting
for more than a year,
it felt like I’d been hung out
to dry.
Whatever the reason, I wanted to
know why.
I had to go to Mexico.
(intense music)
(phone ringing)
- Hola.
- Jaime.
How are you doing?
Nice to see you again.
Been a long time.
It felt like a reunion.
Tom.
But Don was still nowhere to be
seen.
I remember you
from that windy day...
Then this guy walked through the
door.
I didn't know who he was at
first.
It was Adam Dew.
But then it all clicked.
It turned out that Dew
was also the person
behind the film Kodachrome.
So as well as being the
owner of the slides,
he was making his own film,
and was here in Mexico to
promote both.
It was all starting to make
sense,
and I could see why I had
been cut out of the loop;
It was all about money.
(Jaime speaking foreign
language)
Maussan had somehow
persuaded Richard Dolan
into being involved.
- Are you happy to be part of
this?
- I’m, I’m sorry?
- Are you happy to be
part of this event?
- Oh yes, yes, yes, but I
didn’t accept immediately,
I had to think about it.
- You did.
- There’s the risk that
you might be wrong.
That’s what life is, and, so
we can, we can ignore the risk
and just hide under a rock
for the rest of our lives
and not investigate, or we
can put ourselves out there
and give it a shot.
- [Simon] As Adam Dew wouldn’t
speak to me on camera,
and still with no sign of
Schmitt,
they’d left Jaime to face the
music.
I don’t suppose you ever
expected you would be doing
anything like this?
- No, I never expected to be
doing this.
Everything started when I met
you in the digging in 2013,
then I proposed this
possibility,
and they liked the idea, to
do it in a credible venue,
and it was very slow,
it took more than a year
to put everything together.
- [Simon] In less than 24 hours,
he would be presenting
pictures to the world
which he claimed would prove
that aliens are here on earth.
So a big name, Edgar
Mitchell, had pulled out,
but I’d heard that Don
Schmitt was on stage.
I thought I’d wait for the
right moment, before I spoke.
- We do mention many names,
so you’ll just repeat
them as you hear them.
- Okay.
- So they'll be pronounced
correctly --
- [Simon] Despite waiting 18
months
and travelling thousands of
miles,
my patience had to hold out a
bit longer.
Outside, up to 10,000
people were waiting to
see pictures of what they
thought could be an alien body.
(crowd cheering and applauding)
(Jaime speaking foreign
language)
- [Simon] It feels to me
like you’re already preparing
for battle before the day.
- No, its because I’ve been
in battle before the day.
I’ve been in battle for three
months.
Probably if I was wrong in
something,
if I thought this was real, and
it wasn’t,
and somebody proved that,
then I would accept that
I’d probably made a mistake.
But now, I feel so confident.
- All the documents from
Roswell had been destroyed,
surrounding the incident,
and if we believe that as
Congressman Schiff didn’t,
we realise that we were
really getting close to
something extremely sensitive,
extremely classified.
- People like Don Schmitt
and Tom Carey, they have
dedicated their life to do
the Roswell investigation
more than anybody else.
How can they think that
they are so dumb that they
are going to present a mummy,
or a child, or something?
- Do you think its possible
that they are doing it,
because, they think the
subject is so serious
that something like this
might damage the subject?
- Honestly, some of them
think especially after
the Santilli autopsy, after 20
years,
somebody’s coming back with
the same, you know, lie.
Then they think that they
should have stopped us,
some of them, before we damaged
this phenomenon for them.
- [Simon] There’s going to
be a very obvious criticism,
that's going to come from one
direction.
And the direction is,
you’re making a lot of money
out of this event, or you might
be.
(laughs)
- No, I’m risking so much money.
I don’t know if I’m going to
get it back, I don’t care.
Just the auditorium costs
you more than $100,000,
$130,000 for one day, and the
tickets,
and the rights that I had to
pay,
and the stage, and the
production, and the cameras,
and everything else.
It's a lot of money, my friend.
(crowd applauding)
- And while we all waited
for Adam Dew to show the
world his alien pictures,
I noticed he never actually
said they were pictures of an
alien.
- The first thing that we
decided to so was to try to
read this mysterious placard
that appears in the case
that holds the body in the
photos.
If we could read this
placard, mystery solved.
- [Man] Yeah, this one’s
actually more visible.
- [Man] Roswell huh?
- [Man] Not sure whether
you’re going to be able to
get anything out of that.
We’ll see.
- Sadly, Walker was correct,
we couldn’t really make
anything clearly out of the
placard,
there’s a list of several
others who made an effort
but didn’t have much luck.
- [Simon] So, a mysterious
placard that couldn’t be read.
- Kodak also recommended
that we show the slides to
a certain Kodachrome
historian, in Rochester.
- [Simon] Photographic
specialists,
that didn’t want to be named.
Was this all he had?
Apparently not.
- If you think you might have
pictures of an alien body,
you want to show them
to someone who claims
that they've seen alien bodies.
He was a Private First Class
at Roswell Air Force Base
in July of 1947.
- [Simon] It was Eleazar
Benavides,
the Roswell witness I’d
been waiting to speak with,
since 2013.
- A copy, I just say if this is
a copy,
they did pretty good.
(Jamie speaking foreign
language)
- [Simon] It was definitely
a strange looking body.
But proof of aliens?
According to the science, yes.
And there was lots of it.
(speaking foreign language)
- I’m a former retired academic,
who at times worked in
fields like human evolution,
primatology, comparative
anatomy.
On closer examination, its
not a human being at all.
It is not even a mammal.
Jaime had one trick left; a
20 foot high 3D holographic
animation modeled from the
slides.
(mysterious music)
(crowd applauding)
The whole thing had
lasted over four hours,
and had felt totally surreal,
but there was one person
I still wanted to see.
- I can assure you as of
tonight,
all the attacks are going to
come from the United States.
Certain people who said,
"Well just release it,
just come out with it",
and if that would
have been the case,
if we would have just released
the files to our peers,
there would have been two camps:
Those who want to believe
that they're genuine,
and those who, again...
Whose agenda is strictly to
destroy, but we took our time.
There was analysis,
there was investigation.
Biggest problem we ran
into in the States was
we couldn’t get anybody to look
at these.
I’m mean, its true we can’t
prove...
- I think we can.
- [Donald] But by
eliminating what it isn’t,
- I mean, my friend,
don't be so negative.
- That's all that's left.
No, no, that’s all that’s left,
that’s all that’s left.
- Don’t be so negative.
- We go home this week, and
we're going to have, you know,
our friends call for
our heads, on a block.
I mean, we’re not stating,
you know, it's alien,
but the point is, what else
could it be?
- [Simon] So in a room
full of people,
I finally got to ask why
he’d stopped all the contact.
- I've written eight
chapters of the next book
for the last four months.
I just had two performances of
Elijah,
of the professional choral
group that I sing with.
We’re redesigning the museum in
Roswell,
because I’m an advisor to the
board,
I’m totally involved
in all we're redoing --
- [Simon] And that, seemingly,
was that.
Was there anything you
think you could have done
differently, or you feel --
- What else?
Bring the body.
(laughs)
What else can you do?
Tell me?
If they say its a mummy,
where is the picture,
where is the mummy?
If they say anything, they
have to prove it my friend.
I think it was very solid,
very well supported.
That is all I can say.
- [Simon] I couldn’t argue with
him.
Whatever people felt about it,
Jaime Maussan had just put on
the biggest show in UFO history.
I'd gone as far as I could go
in Mexico, and with Roswell.
Being amongst the UFO scene is
like living inside a bubble,
and bubbles always burst.
- [Radio Announcer]
A group called
the Roswell Slides Research
Group,
had used a de-blurring
process to look at the placard
that was visible in the
slides and within hours
they were able to decode
it, to de-blur it,
and were able to read it
well enough to realize that
what we had was --
- [Simon] Schmitt had told me
that the long wait had been so
they could perform due diligence
analyzing
the slides, but members of the
public had made more progress
in one day than their scientists
had made in three years.
And the online UFO community
were out for blood.
- [Chris] It was just a
matter of hours before
some of the very clever people
in
the Roswell Slides Research
Group
who had access to some
sophisticated software,
and when I say sophisticated
I mean software
that’s available for most
personal home computers,
they were able to de-blur the
writing
on the slides almost
immediately.
- We managed to acquire a
copy of a high quality image
of the placard.
And that’s when things started
rolling,
one of our members named Nab
Lator,
I remember him showing a picture
and it sort of said, "something
of two".
At that point I said,
"Really?
"These are words, we’re
actually seeing words
"on this placard when
other people had said
"they couldn’t find anything.
Within a couple of hours,
we had come up with
"Mummified body of two year old
boy."
- [Simon] Whatever secrets
the US Government has on UFOs,
events like these surely serve
to keep the ridicule factor
as high as it can go.
- Tom Carey and Don Schmitt,
who I was working with
at the time, mentioned
nothing to me about this.
They never said a word about it.
I don’t know why I was cut out,
other than they may have
thought I’d have been
overly skeptical
about the slides
showing an
alien creature.
- [Simon] Not long after,
even more paperwork
and a second picture surfaced
which seemed to bury the case
for the slides once and for all.
Adam Dew had gone to
ground, presumably richer,
and Schmitt had started to make
a U-turn.
Once again, they’d left Maussan
to face the music alone.
- It's not the same size,
it's not the same length.
One is 29 inches, the other is
47 inches.
It's a big difference, I’m
sorry.
I want you to look at the new
picture,
and the old picture and
tell me where is the hands,
where is the hands?
There are so many people saying
that I did it for the money,
without any proof, any proof.
They don’t know how much I won,
they don’t know how much I lost,
they don't know anything,
but they talk and talk.
I can tell you Simon, that
I lost money in this event.
Period.
And I can prove it to anyone
who has a good reason to know.
I am tired of the personal
attacks.
I’m not a criminal.
I am really an honest,
and I have integrity --
- [Simon] I never did meet
a cosmic whistleblower
with definitive proof on UFOs.
When it comes to Roswell,
maybe all we can do after all
is listen to those people
who were closest to it.
- My personal belief is that
there was a craft that crashed
out there that was not from this
world.
- Look how many years its
been since it all took place.
I mean, there's a lot changed
in this world in that time.
We’ve learned that space
travel is possible,
and we are doing it now,
why couldn’t it been done
from another universe many years
before?
- [Simon] I'm still no
nearer to finding the truth
about UFOs, but we all deserve
to know it.
Whatever that truth is.
- [Richard] I do think its
important for all of the people,
and this includes myself,
who were involved in
the Mexico City event,
simply to admit the
slides show a child mummy.
That means Jaime, that means
Don, that means Tom Carey,
that means Adam Dew.
- UFOlogy has been damaged
by the Roswell slides case,
but the slides are a symptom,
you know?
It was bad research and I
think there’s a lot of it.
- The placard says that it is a
mummy,
then one has to accept that.
That was the point of my
apology.
- I am hurt by Don Schmitt,
because of what he did.
No question about that.
He said he was threatened,
that they wanted sue him.
- There was some legal
situation regarding the use of
the name of the particular
individual,
who served to analyse the
slides, and that’s all I’ll say.
- I think we need transparency
and we need to talk about
what’s going on in UFOlogy to
elevate it,
to the level of what you would
be doing in a real science.
- Would you think that anybody
who says,
"I have an extraterrestrial
body"
is going to get away with it?
Do you think that it's
going to be accepted?
Would you do it?
- If our failing is anything,
it's that we relied too much
on the scientific communities,
and science as we know
is far from absolute.